[Music]
I'm Matt ston I'm an architect at
Microsoft and I'm also the lead designer
of
CP uh and I'm Dustin Campbell I'm an
architect um on net tooling and also a
member of the C language design team and
work a lot with this guy yeah so we um
uh we have doet coming out today net 9
and that also means that we have C 13 C
13 um meeting the world today and we're
here to tell you a little about what's
in this version of c um we uh want to
start by taking you on a very brief tour
of how you can stay updated on what's
going on with C like everything else
here it's open source yeah so I've got a
couple of things up here on my laptop um
that should show so so just a couple of
ways that if you're new to the c
universe or you want to get involved or
stay engaged we have a few examples of
ways to do that at kind of various
levels of Interest right um this first
thing this is learn. microsoft.com this
is the what's new in C 13 so if you want
to just find out what's uh what's in the
product for C 13 and get documentation
on these things and how they kind of
play in there's all all of it is here
and uh um this is kind of a great way to
kind of kind of just get an overview of
the languages that have shipped right
that is true um however language
features that have shipped yeah the
features the um um as we go like the the
C 14 cycle essentially starts now and as
we go we tend to put language features
out in in preview um and we actually
have one that we'll be showing today
that's already going to be in preview um
and we we try to keep the what's new
page updated even with um preview
documentation of preview features as
well so it is a good place to keep an
eye on c as it evolves over the year um
if you want to um another spot you can
look at and uh and this is on the uh on
GitHub in the rosin repo which is where
the the C and Visual Basic compilers and
IDE Stacks uh all the code lives and
where they're in active development and
this is the the language feature status
page it's in the docs folder um where
you can see the nitty-gritty on like
who's working on what and uh what we're
looking at for you know C 13 and then
also kind of what's happening for for
next and if you would if you if you're
interested in
seeing branches merge this is where to
go right uh so it's kind of a yeah yeah
the working state is really everything
that we currently have engineering
activity on like somebody's building um
as a c language design team we work on
even more things that haven't yet kind
of started being implemented um and so
the place to go if you really want to
engage with the uh C design is that we
have have separate Repro C Lang for um
for the language design itself of c and
this is again it's in the net uhet
foundation on and on on GitHub and uh it
is um this is where notes from our
language design meetings are posted this
is where proposals are posted there's um
issues and discussions and we're
actually you know this is also an active
development though it's not necessarily
the code development but it's where kind
of the the nitty-gritty of the the
language design itself happens so if you
want to get involved in some way or
engage with that provide feedback
discuss with you know the team or you
know and other you know like-minded you
know folks uh then this is the place to
go for that yeah and there is quite a a
lot of community contribution in this
repo as well to the design of C as
opposed to the implementation we saw
before absolutely but I guess we're here
to look at code yeah let's talk about um
many of the like there's a long list of
of features in C 13 um and by the
quotation marks I mean that some of them
really feel like just bug fixes we're
going to show some of the some of the
more interesting ones um but as you
could see on that um language status
page and and the W's new um there's
there's plenty yeah there is plenty um
and and in a way I mean we've been kind
of looking at the features that did land
in C 13 and it feels very much like you
know in a way um almost not necessarily
small features but features that might
feel smaller but they are there to just
make genuinely the cons consumption of
code just better easier make sure you're
doing the right things you know and you
know putting you on the right path
giving type authors and Library authors
the right tools they need to help you
get on the right path as a you know for
consuming apis yeah so it's it's kind of
there is kind of like a theme to it even
though it kind of feels a little grab
baggy but I like yeah I like this idea
that it's very it's very light on new
syntax but there's a lot of semantics
sort of behind familiar syntax if you
want yeah yeah um starting with this one
here we pams yes this has been uh this
has been in the language since C 10 yeah
pams has been around forever and it's
always been about arrays right so you
can have pams array and that means that
that call up there on the first line um
you know you you all know this just uh
packages all the arguments um for that
parameter into an array that gets
created on the spot and passed on to uh
to the method um and almost immediately
after this shipped we're like why
couldn't we do you know pams I
inumerable and then net 2 came out c 2
with generics and they're like well why
can't I do one with prams i inumerable t
of te yeah um and uh that's that's been
a maybe the oldest ass
you know a lot way to be clear and you
may want to show this like it the thing
you pretty much have to do and have had
to do in tar since c 2 if you want to
have a general API that takes all kinds
of collections but also is params is you
need two overloads the general one that
takes I of T and then an array one that
is params because only arrays can be
params you can kind of you can kind of
guess where we going out there um this
gives you the way to kind of like have
something you can if you've got a list
in hand you can pass that and it will be
it it will get you know make its way
into the I inumerable of T and then in
the other one you can pass a list of
arguments and they'll get into the prams
and often you know this is kind of
implemented funny you wouldn't normally
do this you usually you take the prams
one and you you'd use that to call the I
one but it seems like every API that
wants to expose prams ends up doing
something like this as well yeah um and
we've we've sort of had it on our list
for well over a decade to do something
about that but then there's like well if
we do PM iable then what about other
people will immediately be like okay
perams other things right and so we we
kind of left it alone uh but last year
when we were releasing C 12 a very
consequential feature came out which was
uh collection Expressions my favorite
feature in years right so to be able to
surround this with brackets and just say
this is now a collection that is not
opinion exactly opinionated on the type
of that collection instead it gets it
decides what the collection is going to
be what the type of the collection is
based on its surroundings right
essentially so in this case it would be
we could uh uh this is a way that you
could also pass it in here and and get a
um you know like and it looks like very
similar to passing per amps right you
know but really close with just these
square brackets yeah but but the big
difference with collection Expressions
is that you can and some of you might
not have picked them up yet please do
they're awesome is that you can pass
collection Expressions to almost any
collection type right um there are
standard ways that they will work they
will work like oldfashioned collection
Expressions if or collection
initializers rather if you don't do
anything else but you can also um set
things up in your API to to tell it what
to do to create your collection in a
smart way and and the compiler special
Cas is a lot of common types and so and
it's really smart it can create from the
same syntactic expression it can create
all kinds of different Collections and
it'll do it'll do a really good job at
creating um efficient implementations of
interfaces and that kind of stuff now in
this case overload resolution is going
to make it so it calls the array still
but if I delete that and I can delete
that now because I've got that
collection expression up there it will
produce the compiler will generate a
type that's very very efficient that
implements ion numerable for you so you
don't have to go and say I'm newing up a
list or I'm neing up something else um
to pass in here but instead it will new
up something that Implements iable of te
um so that it can be pass here
successfully and efficiently and so that
little extra step we took in t shap 13
is okay now we have Machinery to create
all kinds of different collections from
elements from a list of elements
couldn't we just do that with pams as
well could we just allow pams on all
those collection types and have it do
the same thing and it turns out we can
um and so this of course is legal in C
13 we have prams for all sorts of things
um and basically aot essentially the
things that you can create with
collection Expressions um because we
know how to build that Machinery now so
if I delete these brackets it works just
fine and it's going to do essentially
the same thing under the hood as if you
passed in a collection expression
beautiful you can pretty much think
about it as pams is just the compiler
putting those square brackets around the
elements that you're listing yeah as
arguments right so it's um it those two
features are very closely connected
absolutely now in this case because it's
I inumerable we're going to be
allocating something on the hood under
you know under the hood to do this um
but and there are cases where you don't
want that right and so you might uh
wonder what other things we could do
with perams um and you know if I wanted
to do something a little bit more
efficient using some of the span based
types that we have that's also allowed
right so I could type you know Span in
here that works or I could use its you
know readon cousin um um to pass in you
know arguments that are you know
essentially could be from some some hpe
allocated type it could be from an array
or they could even just be allocated on
the stack this could point a memory on
the stack so that you're not making any
objects to pass something in that can
then be for eached over like this it's
actually and this is like probably the
the the second longest request we've had
for for pams is for the span types um
because the compiler can choose to
allocate that span on the stack right
and when and when it does you know no no
memories wasted and it's actually very
similar to if you had had all those
parameters individually in your
signature they would also have gone on
the stack so this is this is a thing
that sort of from a memory layout
performance perspective
mirrors uh multiple parameters the best
and there's another piece of this that I
think is really interesting which is
that you know overload resolution would
like to say that in this case you know
read only SP is a better overload
because it would Implement ion numer oft
but of course it it doesn't it can't and
so um it's a it's a it's a it's a
restruck it can't do that and uh I Ru is
not suitable but still we end up picking
the readon span type here and this is
part of another feature of C 13 that is
kind of like you know you know sort of I
would say kind of one of those things
it's really under the hood you won't see
it you know pop up but it will help you
do the right thing yeah so we we we
essentially embarked on a new story arc
if you will in C for um for for spans
that is first class spans like even
though um spans have been around now for
a long time um I mean a lot of people
they have weird restrictions and so on
because they have to live on the stack
and so so a lot of people don't use them
directly but we want to make it so that
you can get a lot of benefit uh from
them without having to understand too
much of that machinery and so but but
the language itself has kind of kept
them at arms length for a bit like there
are conversions from array to span to
readon span but they're not in the
language they've been used to define
conversions on the span types and so on
and that means spans haven't felt fully
integrated in the language um but we
have started down and there'll be more
in C 14 making spans first class and the
the the sort of down payment on that in
C 13 that you see here is that we make
spans better than arrays and all the
interfaces implemented by arrays in
overload resolution right I mean it is
the more efficient way generally of
doing that and so it makes sense
um all right so another thing about pams
about prams collections as we said you
know we can do an i inumerable okay we
can do read only span but we can do lots
of other types and so there are also
ways with collection Expressions to you
know expose them to uh collection
expressions in such a way that they they
can the collection Expressions knows how
to build them um one of the types that's
been kind of uh challenging um I think I
even showed an analyzer on this years
ago in a what's new on c talk but the
idea that like a mutable array is a is
one of those types that we use a lot but
we especially use a lot but it can't be
used with the old style collection
initializer right where I knew up and
put the curries and add the elements
because under the hood a collection
initializer just calls ad methods but
the ad method on an immutable array of
doesn't mutate it it just makes yeah it
just makes a new IM mutable Ray so it
doesn't work um and so we made sure that
when we added um you know collection
Expressions that we could support types
like these as well and that means
they're also supported with pams um
because of a special attribute you can
add to make your collections work with
collection expressions and also with
prams yeah so yeah so you really have a
lot of freedom now in how you use pams
yeah um of course you want things to
still um you want overload resolution to
still to still work
SC yeah um and this is one of these
things where it's like oh gosh what's
wrong uh I have no idea you know and and
even you know these sorts of these sorts
of overload resolution problems of like
now we've got an ambiguity um of course
in this case um we we have pams and
three different overloads and you
probably wouldn't have that we could fix
it we could fix it like this right by
just saying yeah we probably want the
the read only span to be the Pam one CU
that's the most efficient of them yeah
and so that makes the most sense right
and so then but then if I add this if I
make it if I was passing in a collection
expression which could be either an
immutable array or an numerable or a
read only span we're right back in the
same problem yes and um and this is a
situation that you sometimes find
yourself in if you are if you are
consuming or especially if you're
writing a library you're maintaining a
library and adding to it over the years
and you want to add new overloads like
in this case the this might have been
around for a while but the param uh the
readon span overload is new right you
want to add that for more efficiency for
your users to pick that up when they
compile but now you've introduced
ambiguities yeah and and and the
language just didn't understand the
rules of the language were not enough
for that particular
finetuning use case you had you were
like okay I maybe I've got some API that
we've got a better way to do it in in
this you know whatever the organization
or application and so you want it to
work and it doesn't work and there's an
ambiguity and now you got to do other
things like at change the method names
stuff that like you're trying to fit
into the rules right yeah sometimes the
the language can't make rules that fit
everyone um and you kind of want to be
able to have some agency when you evolve
your API to make it so that the user of
the API just gets the right stuff and
doesn't get presented with that
especially that we don't break their
existing code maybe that didn't use to
be ambiguous and now will but also like
that they get the right things um even
when those right things are different
from what they they were before you you
make the change so C 13 brings something
here for that API author even if it's an
internal or public API to be able to
come in and say to do the fine-tuning to
say the rules didn't get it right for me
or didn't do what I expected um and I
want to fine-tune it and so you can use
this new overload resolution priority
attribute and what this does is it
essentially says all the overloads here
are they have a priority of zero and so
if I want one to be picked above that
maybe if if it's a better a better
choice then I'm going to give it a
higher priority and that actually fixes
the issue here so now it does pick the
readon span which is cool it is very
cool yeah and sometimes of course what
you want is for a you don't want um a
particular overload to kind of step in
front of the others you want one to step
behind the others yeah and so you can
use negative numbers meaning that you
have four billion of these available to
you is uh as you build out your
applications um but the you know using a
using a negative int here and now um
this actually goes below iable and
mutable array and there's still no error
and that's be but it's it's choosing a
mutable array because now regular
overload resolution is kicking in and
saying at that top level and saying well
okay a mutable array is a better choice
than ion numerable because mutable array
implements ion numerable yeah so the way
and of course you um it's not just a
matter of positive and negative right
you can have use different numbers and
they they relative priority use prime
num you can do whatever I would probably
use squares yeah par of two would run
out quickly would just the 32 um though
that's actually kind of a joke because I
kind of feel like this should be used
sparingly yes right this is used for
that fine-tuning sort of uh situation
where you just need to get something to
choose get the rules to choose the right
thing you just need to subvert the rules
slightly um if you're if you find
yourself uh actually using 32 of these
um you might rethink things uh it it
would still be a smell right usually you
want your API to by and large work by
the rules and not against the grain of
the language yeah it's it's mostly but
not not necessarily only but it's
probably mostly situations where you are
evolving an API and you want to keep
existing code happy even while you are
able to take Bolder steps like for
better performance like move add a new
overload and move the pams to it that
kind of stuff yeah now this doesn't if I
recall um this doesn't actually have
situations where somebody could add an
extension method and now subvert your
type or something like that it's only
the overloads within this type right yes
yeah yeah exactly the priorities are
only used between um members of the same
type and the way you know essentially
the way it works is it takes all the
applicable members it it finds the
highest priority among them and only the
ones that have that highest priority get
to compete for being chosen as yeah so
if if the top one succeeds then it it
wins right but if it doesn't apply then
it would fall down to the next priority
and let them do it out um yeah yeah
which is great and so and so you can
still even though you have a lower
priority you can still get pick
sometimes if you're the only one that
fits the uh that fits the call yeah yeah
absolutely okay um I think let's go and
look at some other code sure that's uh
that's that's three features down in C
13 yeah and we're coming over very
little syntax so far very very little
new syntax uh actually no new syntax
yeah not not so far yeah um now here we
are in this file and it is uh oh it
takes a little bit to absorb uh but
we've got uh uh a a a type called my
file that's partial um and in here
there's a partial
method think back to like C 2 to
remember your partial methods um and uh
and down here is the implementation of
that partial method now part partial
methods have always been used for
codenation scenarios yeah right and so
they are ways that you can say here's
you know a method that I want to provide
an implementation to in a partial part
um and they're used more now in the
world of Source generators um you know
we've had them for a long time but
they're using Source generators as ways
that you can in your type you can say oh
I I here's a hook that the source jator
can fill in implementation for or the
vice or vice versa where you know this
you know you want to provide
implementation and the source Jor is
going to provide a hook you know so it
works very well for kind of these both
these these kinds of scenarios yeah but
up until now the only member kind that
could be partial was methods right and
we've um finally just taken the step and
added partial properties as well right
so I can go ahead and add a partial
keyword to the implementation side and
I'm going to come back here and because
now it's complaining that there's no
definition there's no definition so I'll
go ahead and add my definition I think I
need a a private set because we need the
accessibility accessories to match um
and why haven't we done this before it
seems well it seems so straightforward
the the the reason we there were there
were dragons but they were more like
tiny lizards but we kind of stayed away
from it uh for a couple years because of
that because you if you notice that get
private set that looks like the body of
an abstract property right but it also
looks like the body of a concrete
property that happens to be an auto
property yes and so we kind of had to
make the choice to say that when you put
just you know the AIS or uh keywords and
semicolons is that an auto property
that's on the implementation or is that
a a defition a definition we and we just
said okay it has to be a definition
that's the only way this this can work
sensibly and that means that you can't
use that same that same Auto property
syntax to implement it you have to do
something
manually um so Auto properties aren't
supported uh well um hold that thought
hold that thought but not in that exact
Auto property syntax that you you're
used to yeah so okay this is um this is
again it's it's a great feature for
sourcer and any code generation scenario
um and uh and now it supports properties
and um yeah and honestly we are we
already get requests for supporting
partial other member kinds now so let's
see as the scenarios kind of weren to
work it might be very little work um we
we'll probably keep looking at that just
generalize there but for now you got
methods and properties now yeah that's
fantastic um and that brings us to kind
of another feature that we have here we
have um and here we're locking some data
we're using this classic lock keyword
that's been again something that's been
in C since C 10 um not new syntax again
um something that's been there very for
a very very long time where in c 1 and
net one you know we decided that uh from
the design was that every object could
be something that could be locked on
right so any any object could could uh
could be used with the monitor classes
and in in uh net um and so that pattern
is the one unlock but since then we have
had no limits on you know putting new
locks into net there are so many locks
to choose from um and uh and for various
uh situations in hindsight maybe it
wasn't the greatest idea to enshrine the
first idea we had about locking into the
language itself and kind of hard quoted
in because it kind of almost created an
adoption blocker for the other oh yes
that's a they're at a comparative
disadvantage just because this very
early first one is is embraced and
there's nothing wrong with it per se um
but um but we can do better and yeah and
and I would say that now we have a new
idea for a lock yes and that's what this
feature is about we've got a new lock
that's in inet and it's not called
semaphor slim or anything like that no
nothing like that it's called lock um
it's uh we are in this yeah but I
changed that map lock field from object
to lock the new uh system threading lock
and it works with the lock keyword and
that's kind of the new feature here that
it's that's kind of it's it's sort of um
just we allow the lock statement to be
used with this new lock because we feel
that this is kind of very similar used
in similar scenarios yeah um but it is
lighter weight than the old one the old
one has extra baggage with Monitor and
features there that felt like well okay
um something Slimmer and lighter weight
to be used as kind of the Workhorse lock
for these scenarios of just protecting
data and to be clear this would have
worked even if we had done nothing in
Char because lock is an object yes so
locking on it by rights should just do
the same monitor thing like um but what
we said here is
that's that's wrong let's let's Embrace
this new lock type in the language and
so when the lock statement is used on an
object of the lock type like the static
type lock like the compiler can see this
is the lock it will generate the more
efficient uh code to use it actually as
intended to use that lock type as
intended well that means does that mean
that then if I say knew up a lock and
turn it into an object that that can
still use monitor that will still use
monitor which is like the risk of doing
something like this and so what we did
you can see the green squiggle there is
said don't do that please yeah um if
you're creating if you have a lock
object don't don't upcast it and forget
that it's a lock because then if you use
the result of that in a in a subsequent
lock statement it won't do the same kind
of locking it can get very dangerous and
and silly so so that we put a little
guard rails on it there so that people
don't mix lock accid non loocks yeah cuz
things might not lock like you think
they should things might have different
different semantics and do things in a
weird way and of course you know the C
compiler has once it's become an object
and it's it's passed through we have no
way of knowing that it's not an object
statically yeah unless unless we build a
runtime check into lock and now it
starts getting inefficient and so on so
we didn't do that but we we put these
guard rails in right and and also to be
clear this is not that we've sort of
generalized the lock statement to be uh
pluggable in a way or to have like it's
not that you can write your own types
that plug in and and have their own
behavior in the lock statement yeah
there's no lock pattern today right um
yeah so that's not this is not that um
again it's it's a situation where we we
just it's that's actually a bigger
problem if we ever wanted to do that and
so but just for this type because we
feel that it is that important that we
want to do something different and if
that other thing becomes a scenario that
people are clamoring for and then we we
could we could go there we sort of
broken the seal on the lock statement
now but um but for now we just embra is
really good type from the from the core
libraries yeah that's fantastic um all
right let's talk about one of our
features that's maybe not quite there
but it's very very ready I've been using
it a lot yes um it is a feature that
right now in net 9 it is only in preview
and so a language version preview I
don't mean net SDK preview I mean you
can go into your project file you can
use net9 ga uh the general release and
uh you can specify Lang version preview
to get access to this feature um and we
going come back to why it's in preview
and not part of C 13 proper absolutely
but let's let's let's show that feature
that feature is uh something that we've
shown a number of times often with
squiggles but it really is here now and
it's the field keyword uh so the ability
to within an auto property to access the
backing field right something that you
know you with a with an auto property
there's always been this big Cliff you
have to if you want to do various things
like um you know in your Setter you just
want to say trim that value that's
coming into the string you know to
before it gets set to the or or just
lock on something before you do the
mutation as in this case yeah and that
results in a huge Cliff where you've now
got to okay well if I want to do those
things I now need to go declare a field
I can't use an auto property anymore and
I must specify both accessors even
though I only wanted to fiddle with one
of them absolutely so we're taking that
Cliff away with the F keyword is
something you can use to say in
accessors and property accesses to say
well I am an auto property I do have a
generated backing field and field is how
I access it yeah now this however I can
still write an accessor manually if I
want to if you want to this one actually
does right now because it sets a field
that's different from this which is now
the backing field yes um and so it's so
we're actually getting a warning here
that we should be using field because
the other accessor does so that helps me
not make a mistake and make sure that
I'm using this uh this the the backing
field keyword as well the field keyword
which is awesome and so now that map
field isn't isn't needed up there you
can see it's gray out up there we're not
referencing anymore so so we just get a
backing field of the same type as the
property generated for us um now um it
may be a little excessive that we're
actually locking on get oh yeah so if we
men the get access or as just return
field yeah if we took out that lock if
we wanted to take out that lock we could
do so just like this because it's an
auto property I used to think that auto
properties had to have like a get and a
set and semicolons no bodies and really
what and I thought that's what made it
an auto property at least when I looked
at it but really what makes it an auto
property is whether you created a you
had to like have a back backing field or
where the one was generated for you and
so now Auto properties come in this like
large variation
of syntax that you can use to really you
know kind of lots of ways that you can
use to make your property experience
much nicer and be more expressive um and
um and just to Circle back to the uh to
the preview flag to uh well we'll get
there as well but just the uh the
partial thing from before now we are
actually writing the implementation as
an auto property yeah so but but because
it has it's an auto property where one
of at least one of the accessors has a
body yeah it it doesn't conflict with
the definition definition implementation
can be can we can tell those apart yes
and it and because it acts as the field
keyword only it is an auto property
which is exciting so that is pretty cool
but yeah we should talk about why why we
didn't just ship it why didn't we ship
it and why it's in preview right now um
and the reason it's in preview is
because this is a breaking change um in
fact we've talked with customers uh who
have said they've gone through their
code bases and said I have a lot of Fe
called field right maybe they're writing
database schemas and they have an object
hierarchy and they're talking about
fields in their databases or maybe this
is like it's an academic thing and it's
like oh well I have a person that has a
field of study or or it's a force field
in physics or it's in Star Wars whatever
yeah or agriculture like actually turns
out that many fields have Fields yes um
so um so it's a little bit of a breaking
change to start saying well inside
accessors it's now a keyword yeah so
sometimes this now becomes a problem
yeah if you had that feel and you were
referencing that and so we decided we
went through many alternative designs in
this feature and we're like this is the
best design and this is the one that
we're going to be happy that we landed
on like 10 years from now this is going
to be right but in order to do that we
have to do a little more of a breaking
change to C than we usually do and so we
we sat down and said okay now's the time
for us to come up with a breaking change
approach for C that if that we can use
sparingly probably not even once every
release though let's see um and so um
you can see that warning you get there
that's sort of like it's not we haven't
really implemented that breaking change
approach yet but it we're sort of on the
way there yeah so so right now it says
you can refer to the existing member you
can use this dot field to access the
field like you would normally if you had
a parameter in a field that matched um
or because this is a keyword the
standard way in C to use a keyword as an
identifier and refer to it is with an at
yeah and so uh so this is kind of what
we think you know this breaking change
experience which would do some of this
kind of work for you and fix up the code
that you have so that it doesn't break
with the addition of this keyword but
it's probably worth mentioning if you
say this. field that work two and the
reason that works is that um field is
only a keyword if it sort of occurs on
its right so so we made the sort of
blast radius if you will of the breaking
chain as small as possible it's only
when you use it as a variable name
Standalone like if as if it was a
parameter then it's a keyword yeah
amusingly I'm getting a getting that
warning back again because now I'm using
a field out there called field but this
one uses a backing field and so now I'm
getting let's say it's kind of funny um
but yeah that's so this is where we want
to go with uh with field and we hope
that it will be yeah you know ready to
go um and and and we want it to be there
for C 14 ready to go and we would like
you all to to play with it a bit and for
us to understand like are we are we as
right as we think we are about making
this breaking change and uh help us get
the the the the tooling experience and
everything right around it so that come
C 14 we can now deal with this breaking
change with confidence and everyone can
Embrace this new cord all right okay we
have one more thing to show yeah and um
and that's we finally get to why this
all is a ref struct yeah I know ref
structs the thing that you know you
write only if you're like David Fowler
or stepen to or somebody like that right
and but here we have them here I I
rarely write them yeah but uh but you
know sometimes I do and um one of the
things that's interesting about this
particular ref struct is that it has a
dispose method yeah but it doesn't
Implement I disposable itself yeah um
and the reason for that is that ref
structs you know that if I want to
actually want to implement eye
disposable on this and pass it to
something that took I
disposable net would insist on that
being boxed into an object because it's
destruct and then you know that an
object that implements I disposable on
the Heap but ref structs can't be
Implement can't actually live on the
Heap they can only live on the stack if
you want to think about ref structs like
your spans and read only spans are ref
structs so they those kind of
limitations they have to be on a they
have to be on a stack they apply to all
ref structs and therefore it would seem
that implementing interfaces doesn't
make sense because you can't convert to
them anyway yeah but it does in fact
make sense and we've now enabled it yes
and of course it it finds here the the
dispose method needed to implement the
interface um but the but How do you use
yeah how would we use it and we go back
here and we see okay these methods
actually
take I disposable but they take it in as
a constraint on T yes and this is where
you can now use a ref struct that
implements an interface and you can
could con conceivably constrain it so I
can go right here and I can type my file
and all is good until it's not yeah but
it's a start it's a good start um
so yeah gener so generic uh kind of
satisfying uh generic constraints is
what interfaces are good for on ref
struct that's how you can use them
however type parameters by default they
are not expected to be ref struct you
you were never able to pass ref structs
as type parameters and so they make
assumptions they're like if you if you
have a constraint that says that you
implement I disposable well then you can
convert to it and so we need to make say
something about the type parameter that
this type parameter actually does allow
ref drugs um and the Syntax for that if
you want to kind of Da very uh it's very
surprising cry allows ref struct so so
instead of a a a traditional constraint
it's more like a a non straint right
it's this uh you know kind of like a we
call it an anti- constraint which seems
like a double negative but it's really
about this te does allow ref Str it
allows extra things the and so that
poses some limitations on the body of
that method right because right here is
a conversion to I disposable but it
can't be converted to I disposable I can
fix that I could use T right here and
because T is constrained to I disposable
and allows the rest struck I can still
call dispose on it but I can't actually
change you know convert it to an ey
disposable because of that boxing issue
and you've said that you care about not
doing that in this method by saying I
allow R structs exactly um now the other
reason this works is because in net 9 we
have added that particular uh um uh I
guess anti con straint non straint
whatever uh to um to a bunch of the core
interfaces and delegate types right so
this is this is this is implemented this
is added sorry on ION numerable of T
iable of T now implicitly allows can see
it there in the hover it allows ref stru
right there if I go over to otherwise we
couldn't pass T to it yeah if I go over
to you know source.net I can see you
know right here in the right here in the
S oh that's the wrong one right here in
the source I can see it's right there
yeah and likewise if I go and pick up
something like action of te where you've
had these delegates for a long time and
now they've all been anteed to allow ref
struck so that if you have something
that you need to pass into you know some
delegate somehow you don't have to go
now you know you could do it with a ref
struck but you had to go to find a new
delegate the parameter type of that ref
struct because you couldn't pass it to
as you know t as a type parameter as a
type argument and now we can and so it's
yeah the I mean the the op shot of the
story really is ref struct couldn't
participate in any kind of abstraction
that you couldn't any kind of code that
was abstracted over multiple different
kinds um you couldn't write you can use
ref structs for it and now you can they
can Implement interfaces and they can be
allowed into generics and we do it all
over the place so they kind of been this
is also kind of like a first class thing
that's happening um with ref structs
that we didn't have before right and so
it's enabl a bunch of cool scenarios and
I think there's going to be a lot more
to come in future. Nets so and with that
we don't have any more to show you today
yeah